.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH NINJAHELPER 1 "january 19, 2006" "riseup" "backupninja package"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
NINJAHELPER \- A menu driven curses-based interface to walk you through
backupninja configuration.
.br
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ninjahelper"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ninjahelper
is an helper script to walk you through configuration of the backup
tasks for backupninja. It is a curses based "wizard" with an intuitive 
menu-driven interface.
.PP
.SH ADDING NEW HELPERS
.br
To add an additional 'wizard' to ninjahelper, follow these steps:
.IP (1)
create a file in the handlers directory (eg. /usr/share/backupninja) using
the .helper extension. For example, if you wish to create a helper for the
handler "blue", create the file /usr/share/backupninja/blue.helper.
.IP (2)
next, add your helper to the global HELPERS variable and define the main
function for your helper (the function name is always <helper>_wizard). To
use the blue.helper as an example: 
HELPERS="$HELPERS blue:description_of_this_helper"
       blue_wizard() {
         ... do work here ...
       }
.IP (3)
look at the existing helpers to see how they are written. Try to re-use
functions, such as the dialog functions that are defined in easydialog.sh,
or the vserver functions defined in lib/vserver.
.IP (4)
test, re-test, and test again. Try to break the helper by going backwards,
try to think like someone who has no idea how to configure your handler
would think, try to make your helper as simple as possible. Walk like a cat,
become your shadow, don't let your senses betray you.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR backupninja (1), 
.BR backupninja.conf (5), 
.BR backup.d (5), 
.br
.SH AUTHOR
BACKUPNINJA was written by the riseup.net collective.
